== eschaton => google maps on rails

Helps with writing google map mashups in Rails, helping you put the music on the turntable so that your dog can eat beats.
Makes GUI mapping code look like Cherry Blossoms and Snow.

You can read the docs[http://rdoc.info/projects/yawningman/eschaton], our blog[http://yawningman.github.com/eschaton] for updates or 
if you have an issue shout it out here[http://github.com/yawningman/eschaton/issues].

== Get going...

Generate a map, look at the files the generator created and play a bit.

  $ script/generate map
  
Put some test code in your <b><i>app/helpers/map_helper.rb</i></b> and *_play_*!
Visit the map at http://localhost:3000/map or wherever your server runs.

== Enough talk, lets code, here be samples.

Eschaton code can be placed in a view helper, contained within the run_map_script methods' block and it will happily return javascript to you.

  map = Google::Map.new(:center => {:latitude => -33.947, :longitude => 18.462},
                        :controls => [:large_map_3D, :map_type])
  
  # A simple map click
  map.click do |script, location|
    marker = map.add_marker :location => location
    marker.open_info_window :html => 'Awesome, you added a marker!'
  end

  # A simple map click using a partial as info window content
  map.click do |script, location|
    marker = map.add_marker :location => location
    marker.open_info_window :partial => 'location/show'
  end

...

  # Create a satellite map, zoomed at 16.
  map = Google::Map.new(:controls => [:small_map, :map_type],
                        :type => :satellite, :zoom => 16)

  # Collect some markers 
  markers = [[-34.2023, 18.3794], [-34.2029, 18.3797], [-34.2022, 18.3811], 
             [-34.2016, 18.3829], [-34.2006, 18.3849]].collect do |location|
               map.add_marker :location => location
            end

  # ... and draw a line in between them
  map.add_line :between_markers => markers, :tooltip => {:text => "Short Hike I do everyday with my dog"}

...
  
  # Draw a polygon, yellow with a green border ..
  map.add_polygon :vertices => [[-34.2023, 18.3794], [-34.2029, 18.3797], [-34.2022, 18.3811]], 
                  :fill_colour => 'yellow', :border_colour => 'green'  

...
  
  # A draggable marker that talks when its being dragged and dropped
  marker = map.add_marker :location => {:latitude => -33.947, :longitude => 18.462},
                          :tooltip => {:text => "Drag me", :show => :always},
                          :draggable => true

  marker.when_being_dragged do
    marker.update_tooltip :text => "Dragging..."
  end

  marker.when_dropped do |script, drop_location|
    marker.update_tooltip :text => "Dropped..."
    marker.open_info_window :html => "Yes, I was getting tired of flying..."
  end

Say you want to show your friends how you would hop across a crater on Mars.
We also want to include the google search bar, incase we want to sight see whilst on Mars.

  map = Google::Map.new(:controls => [:small_map, :map_type], :type => :mars_elevation,
                        :zoom => 6)

  map.enable_google_bar! # For sight seeing

  hops = [[-0.252, 14.414], [-0.977, 15.446], [-1.735, 16.094],
          [-2.679, 16.171], [-4.346, 16.600], [-4.598, 17.116],
          [-6.271, 19.379]]

  hops.each do |location|                  
    tooltip_text = if location == hops.first
                     'Start here!'
                   elsif location == hops.last
                     'End here!'
                   else
                     'Hop'
                   end

    marker = map.add_marker :location => location, :tooltip => {:text => tooltip_text, :show => :always}
    marker.click do
      marker.open_info_window :html => "Its really hot in this crater!"
    end
  end

Both Hashes and Arrays can represent a Location, so use which ever form you prefer.

  {:latitude => -33.947, :longitude => 18.462} == [-33.947, 18.462]

Checkout the online[http://rdoc.info/projects/yawningman/eschaton] docs for more on each mapping objects possibilities.

== Get it...

  $ script/plugin install git://github.com/yawningman/eschaton.git
